---
layout: project
title:  "URBAN DYNAMICS"
date:   2015-10-20 16:54:46
author: Deepank
categories:
- project
img: portfolio_01.svg
carousel:
- single01.jpg
- single02.jpg
- single03.jpg
client: Dissertation Work
website: .
---
####URBAN DYNAMICS
We live in the world where aspirations are endless and resources limited. In the race of obtaining maximum comfort, we try to harness every available bit of resource. Though in this race we tend to forget that these resources are also required by earth to maintain its ecosystem. The ecosystem which we are also a small part. There is a capacity of ecosystem to maintain its process, overusing and overshooting that threshold may lead to unbearable consequences. This study is related to understanding the complexities of urban processes, and assessing the potential of every resource available to urban area, to a point where it can serve the living population, without experiencing load. The ecosystem is very complex structure, where no process work in isolation. A small push in any one part may have effects on the other. Studying the unpredictable behavior of ecosystem is still a young and multidisciplinary field and will take time for us to master it. This study however is a drop in the ocean, the ocean which is unknown, vast, and sometimes invisible.

####Our Proposal
In the study, as there is no perfect or sure shot way to begin this urban research with. Literature review holds the major importance in determining and establishing the base for previous any such researches, their domain, outcomes etc. Researches which are not directly influencing this study are also studied as their components overlap with our need and requirement of certain parameters. Many esteemed authors have developed their understanding of ecosystem management and given their set of criteria, which might not be in quantitative terms, but provide insight to the importance of those criteria in determining carrying capacity. Apart from these researches, there have been lot of studies lately which are directly associated with urban area in concern. From around 16 of these researches, 9 of them are more recent and provide different parameters for urban processes assessment. For detailed study of these researches, I have considered two case studies done by Tehrani & Makhdoum, 2013 and Shi et al., 2013 which are based in Tehran, Iran and Shanghai, China respectively. 
Identification of parameters for this study was a huge task, for this purpose all the parameters from each of the study are laid out in common board and the parameters for which the quantitative data can be obtained is selected. Apart from these parameters, other parameters which seemed fit for this study were included. There are 59 parameters which are selected from around 250 of them.
Literature study provides various models which researchers have applied for their research. These models, however do not address to the problem directly as they are not directly related to the objective and approach of this study. In this study, the structure of model is based on data acquired from the parameters, which are then applied to system dynamics model, the stocks and flows are determined by utilizing data with the help of models from literature. The stock-flow diagram for each of the sub-system would be made and then would be combined to get the whole scenario. In this model in parallel, the shape files will be prepared which will contain information about further administrative divisions such as wards and zones. This GIS file is also made integrated in our model where a slight update in data coming from system dynamics application will simultaneously update the map. This map will show the zones and wards where certain resources will be overloaded in future time (tn) taking data from current time (t1) and analyzing over systems dynamics. This approach can provide various results such as dependency of one factor over other, the push being required by any other parameter which is lagging behind in longer run, or area wise problems can be identified.
The collection of data is a crucial part in this study, Almost data from all of the sectors are required for analysis. The parameters are basically chosen such that they relate with population like water requirement per capita, waste generation per capita etc. as involvement of population is very important. Though in every factor, population is somehow directly or indirectly related, but these parameters provide direct inputs on current consumption of resources. 
Being capital of Madhya Pradesh, City of Bhopal has almost all major administrative, research as well as academic institutions. Data requirement for basic urban amenities can be fulfilled by Bhopal Municipal Corporation and Bhopal Development Authority, Some of the South-western part of Bhopal currently comes under Kolar municipality, from where similar data can be obtained. State Housing Board currently works with BDA for new housing schemes and slum rehabilitation Programmes, which can provide statistics for housing requirement. The environmental management part, which is limited to parks maintenance and tree plantation is done by active indulgence of Capital Project Administration (CPA). Data regarding pollution level and current trend analysis can be obtained from Madhya Pradesh State pollution control board. Several reports are regularly being published by government and private institutions regarding concerned urban sectors, some reports from these studies can be referred for this purpose. Census of India provides critical data regarding population and all allied sectors, a very detailed information can be acquired from census data handbook as well as on census website.
It was popularised in the 1960s with the release of Letraset sheets containing Lorem Ipsum passages, and more recently with desktop publishing software like Aldus PageMaker including versions of Lorem Ipsum.